## Transistors & Relays
- *Anytime you power something that requires more voltage than the arduino supplies, you need a transistor*
- A Transistor is an electronic switch ften used to have a small amount of energy (an electronic signal) control a larger amount of energy
    - Transistors have three terminals: 
        - collector
        - base (responsible for activating flow between the collector and emitter)
        - emitter (connects to ground)
    - For MOSFETS:
        - source (connects to ground)
        - gate (responsible for activating flow between the source and drain)
        - drain 
- Relays 

## Motors
- Properties of motors include Torque & Speed
- Torque is the measure of a motor's ability to move weight, or "movement force." Torque is included on motors' datasheets in units like mass/"some distance" (ie pounds/feet)
- Speed is the measure of how quickly a motor spins, in "rotations per minute" (rpm).
- Motors will often work within 40-50% of needed. This is useful for testing.
- Motors will draw more current when they start, to overcome intertia.
- *Anytime you power something that requires more voltage than the arduino supplies, you need a transistor*.
- Motors are designed for continuous motion with little feedback in terms of where you've turned a motor to, or how much. 
- If you want to control things like speed and direction, you should use a motor driver like an H-Bridge or EZDriver.
- Servo motors do provide feedback about rotation and angle. For other motors, you can get this feedback with a sensor.
- You can find good junk motors in things like tape decks, CD players, record players, blenders, drills--lots of appliances have motors!

## Soldering
- Create more stable and permanent electrical connections
- Attach header pins on components
- [Some tips]()

## Resources
- Making Things Move a book & and a blog.
- Servo motor angle based on analog sensor: Arduino code
- Servo motor angle changing direction with a variable: Arduino code
- DC motor: Arduino code


## Assignment 
- Use [this self-assessment](https://forms.gle/4FiVSaczJUntFvf68) to help review material from class
- Read:
    - [A Brief Rant on the Future of Interaction Design](http://worrydream.com/ABriefRantOnTheFutureOfInteractionDesign/) by Bret Victor
    - [Talk to Me](https://www.moma.org/interactives/exhibitions/2011/talktome/essay/) by Paola Antonelli
- Be prepared with a concept for the final that includes a web-based or physical interaction:
    - Who is your audience?
    - What are you inviting them to do?
    - How does your system respond to their interaction, inviting them to do it again (or something else)?
    - What reaction do you intend to solicit?
    - What does the simplest, version 1 protoype look like?
    - What questions do you have?
    - Is anything blocking your progress?
- Schedule office hours with me
